hey everyone welcome to this video this
is my third video in an eight part
series of communication tips for
leaders in the first video i explained
why
i'm doing this eight part series in the
first place
and you should go watch that video
because it's a pretty shocking statistic
about how many employees
say that their leaders lack
communication skills in the second video
i talked about something called
the huddle and how one boss
basically won the hearts of all of his
staff members over a really thoughtful
surprise on christmas
make sure you check out that video as
well in this video
i am talking about public speaking
and the idea of improving your skills as
a
public speaker now what makes me
qualified to talk about this
is i have been a member of my local
toastmasters club for six years
and i can tell you i have improved
vastly since when i started
with that club there are so many things
that i learned that i didn't even
realize i was doing as a speaker
because i always thought i was pretty
good at public speaking
but i was a bit humbled once i started
going to toastmasters
because i realized i was doing certain
things and i had certain habits
and through those meetings the group
that i go to the meetings with helped me
improve on all of those skills and to be
honest i feel like i still have a long
way to go there are still room for
improvement so the first tip here is
check out if you have a local
toastmasters club in your town or city
and perhaps this is something that you
know exists but you've never considered
joining
and i would really encourage you to try
going to a couple of meetings
and seeing how it is how you like it
always the first meeting is a little
uncomfortable
if you will especially if you got put on
the spot and asked to speak in front of
the crowd
but give it at least three meetings give
yourself a genuine try
to see if you like the format what
toastmasters
does for you as a speaker is a few
things but i'm going to touch on some of
the key ones
in this video the first thing
toastmasters does is it helps you
eliminate crutch words from your speech
what is a crutch word crutch words are
the things like
um ah er but
so they are words that we use to
fill the silence and hopefully as you're
watching my videos there aren't
too many of these words that are
slipping into my speech i'm sure from
time to time you'll hear one
but i've worked really hard to eliminate
these
filler or these crutch words from my
speech when i'm talking
so why do so many people use these words
because it's really
uncomfortable to allow silence to occur
in between sentences if i'm talking
like this and pausing in between each
sentence
it takes a lot of self-control to not
some uh add in
those um those uh
those filler words and um and the other
thing is uh
it's so common when you hear people talk
they use ah
and um next time you hear somebody talk
without them noticing just
try and keep mental track of how many
times they use those words and you'll be
shocked
and even for yourself before you even go
to a toastmasters meeting
practice delivering a speech and record
yourself with your phone
and afterward count how many times you
use these filler words throughout your
speech
hopefully it's not that many but i know
when i first went to a toastmasters
meeting
i think i said um like 18 times and i
only talked for two minutes
but once you're aware of the crutch
words that you're using
it makes it so much easier to eliminate
those
from your speech every toastmasters
meeting has an
ah counter or an um counter and what
that person does
their whole job throughout the meeting
is to keep track of the filler or crutch
words that other members use
throughout the meeting and then report
back to the group
so that each person knows how many times
they're using various crutch words and
what those words are
the second thing toastmasters does is it
helps you work
on body language and vocal variety
so why do these two things matter as a
communicator or more specifically
as a leader who needs to be an effective
communicator
well when we break down the overall
percentage of
how a message is communicated it comes
down to
three numbers 55 38
7. these numbers represent three
different categories the first
is body language the second is vocal
tone
and the third is the actual words that
we say
and that order is the same order as the
number 55
of the way a message is communicated is
body language
38 is the vocal tone and variety
and only 7 of the way a message is
communicated
is through the words you may have run
into this example if you sent an
email or let's say you received an email
from somebody
and you thought wow what's their problem
they sound so upset
like they sound grouchy in this email
and then you talk to the person
afterward and they're like no
i wasn't upset at all and sometimes the
way we interpret
words or the way words are structured is
not
defining the their actual meaning
whereas if you saw that person
face to face and they said hey how's it
going
or hey
how's it going there's two different
meanings it's the same word but in the
first instance the person you can tell
is happy and is excited the second you
wonder like are they annoyed with me
what's happening here
and so it shows you how important body
language and vocal variety are
these are the types of things that
speech evaluators will be able to point
out when you're in toastmasters
so every time you have an opportunity to
speak in a toastmasters group
others who are part of the crowd who are
evaluators will give you
feedback on things that you did very
well
maybe you used your hands when you were
talking which is kind of a next level
thing for a speaker a lot of people
they'll clutch a podium or
they won't know what to do with their
hands but then the evaluators will also
give you constructive criticism
or feedback on maybe other opportunities
that you could have more effectively
used body language
to communicate more effectively i
personally think
toastmasters should be mandatory for
anyone who is a leader
or at the very minimum that leaders
really
take public speaking seriously and if
nothing else
record themselves practicing before they
deliver a speech to their
office this is such an important skill
and if you're not a confident
communicator face to face
your employees are going to lose trust
in what it is that you are saying you
need to be confident and you need to
communicate effectively thank you so
much for checking out
this video the third in this eight part
series if you like this content
please subscribe to my channel and make
sure you check out the rest of the
videos that are part of this playlist